## Construction:

####  353 BC - 350 BC

The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus was an above-ground tomb built by and for the Persian satrap Mausolus in the lavish city founded under his and his father's conquest. Construction of the tomb likely began before the death of Mausolus. Upon his death the project was continued by his sister-wife Artemisia who also died before the project's completion, living only two years after her husband.

The tomb was built on a stone platform at the center an enclosed courtyard on a hill which overlooked the city. According to a primary source, the building was 46 meters tall from base to peak with a ceiling height of and had a perimeter of 125 meters not including the 36 columns surrounding the tomb. However it's size was not what was remarkable about the structure, rather it's near total adornment with statues and sculptures. The pyramidal peak of the building held a statue of Mausolus and Artemisia in a chariot drawn by four horses. The walls had reliefs of action scenes and battles some of which included such mythical creatures as centaurs and lapiths, while others depicted historical battles. The were a number of larger-than-life free standing sculptures of men, lions and other beasts though few of these survive today.

​	It is though likely that adornment of the monument was continued by Mausolus' descendants as historians find it unlikely that all of the work could have been accomplished in three years. Most of what historians know about the construction comes from historical writings rather than ruins and as such there are many interpretations of what the Mausoleum may have looked like